---
title: How to Improve Holiday Itinerary with Machine Learning
layout: note
image: /assets/img/posts/fascinating-relationship-between-ai-neuroscience-01.webp
description: Perfect your travel plans with this kick-ass strategy - saving time, effort and money!
category: datascience
tags:
- experiences
- visualisation
- algorithm
---

In October 2019, my friends and I are planning our awesome holiday in [Greece and Amalfi](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1klLY2yu88v6EpUkSP_vuOD4j1Dqi2ZHr&usp=sharing). The way we plan our perfect holiday itinerary is by using Google Map. We search for the places to visit and pin markers on Google Map for attractions that might interest us.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/embed?mid=1klLY2yu88v6EpUkSP_vuOD4j1Dqi2ZHr" width="640" height="480"></iframe>

For me, to optimise our vacation to the fullest, as to cover as much ground as possible; I have three questions:
- How many days should I spend at one location?
- Which attractions/locations should I visit each day?
- What is the most optimal route from a place to another?

Let me show you the itinerary my algorithms have proposed for us. It is recommending the best sequence of places to visit, day by day.

- Start from Athens, visit the Acropolis and other historic archaeological sites. That's a great start! 
- Travel to Santorini, a beautiful island with whitewashed homes and picture-perfect sunsets. 
- Sail to Crete, for a road trip adventure of a lifetime, by exploring hidden corners and tasting the best of Greek cuisine.
- Fly to Italy and travel to Amalfi and Ravello where the terraces are blending along the cliffs with the most spectacular coastal scenery.
- Travel to Sorrento and Naples, indulge in the best pasta, pizza, limoncello, and gelato.

Great holiday itinerary isn't it?! This sequence of locations is fully generated by the algorithm. Would you like to try this for your next holiday? I have the codes ready for you. In this article, I am going to show you exactly how you can do it too for your next vacation!
