---
title: Jekyll and rbenv
layout: note
image: https://image.ibb.co/gob41V/jekyll.png
description: How to setup Jekyll and Ruby
category: setup
tags:
  - Jekyll
  - rbenv
---

# What is Jekyll
This site is running on Jekyll and I'm hosting this on Github. It transform MD files into websites, it is simple and fully customisable.

# Install rbenv and Ruby
If you're using MacOS, `gem install bundler jekyll` would show the following error:
> ERROR:  While executing gem ... (Gem::FilePermissionError)
> You don't have write permissions for the /Library/Ruby/Gems/2.3.0 directory.

`ruby -v` to check version, remember the version. This is because this Ruby files are needed for MacOS. So you need to install a separate Ruby environment with `brew install ruby`.

`ruby -v` again to check version, if it is the same, you have to restart (close and open) your *Terminal*.

Next, `brew install rbenv` to manage multiple Ruby versions. After it is done installing, run `rbenv init` and follow the instructions. Most likely it is requesting you to add `eval "$(rbenv init -)"` into `~/.bash_profile`.

Run `curl -fsSL https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv-installer/raw/master/bin/rbenv-doctor | bash` to check if everything is all right. If not follow the instructions shown in the *Terminal*. Sometimes restarting *Terminal* helps.

Install Ruby 2.5.1 with `rbenv install 2.5.1`, then set it as default `rbenv global 2.5.1`. `ruby -v` to check version.

# Install Jekyll
Now you can `gem install bundler jekyll`.
run `bundle`, if you have `Gemfile`. `bundle update` and `bundle install` too.

# Start Jekyll
To start *Jekyll*, change the directory to your *Jekyll root folder* by `cd <path of working directory>`
And then simply `jekyll serve` to start your local server.

Alternatively, if you have you *Gemfile* in place, do `bundle exec jekyll serve` instead.
And lastly, if you have written some posts in *_drafts* folder and would like these posts to be shown during development, run `bundle exec jekyll serve --drafts`.
